# CI/CD Pipeline

## CI on Pull Requests
The build is in IBM Cloud under the ETS&I IBM Cloud account and uses SPS. The stages are defined in the `.pipeline-config-pr.yaml` and all stages under the test key run in parallel. The stages each call a corresponding script in the `scripts` directory, the build and publish stage only runs in the CD build, not in PRs. Each stage roughly does the following:

- Unit tests -> We run the `pytest` unit tests in Travis running in a Linux container. This is similar to running the unit tests locally and will only test code and mocks designed to run off platform, so no z/OS interaction.

- `autopep8` -> We use `autopep8` to check code style. We have deferred all discussions/arguments about code styling to autopep8 as it's a fairly sensible interpretation of the Python PEP coding standards. If this fails, check the log as it will show which line failed.

- Copyright check -> We run a simple `grep` against all python files to check that they contain an appropriate copyright statement at the top of the file.

- Integration test -> We run the unit, integration and functional tests on winmvs28 under the ANSIBIT user to actually test the tool can create the CICS Region data sets. Read above for a more in depth overview of the functional tests.

## CD on Main merges

When new content is merged into main we automatically build the product and release it to the internal GitHub [releases tab](https://github.ibm.com/etsi/z-dec-spec/releases) on the GitHub repository. This means you can always download and test the product content on main without having to build the Python wheel yourself. It also makes releasing the product a lot easier as we can just download from the assets tab and push that asset directly to customers through the CICS Open Beta site.

The version number is dictated by the version string in the `pyproject.toml`. During a `main` run, if there is no associated release with that number, a new one will be created. If one already exists, the release and the Ggit tag are both deleted and the `main` commit is retagged with the version number and a new release is made. The release notes are auto-generated by GitHub and contain all the PRs that have merged since the last release.

The build scripts for building the product on z/OS using Grub are in `scripts/build-and-release.sh` and the script to create and update the GitHub releases are in `scripts/github-release.sh`. Authentication-wise, they use a PAT created by Drew and stored in our IBM Cloud secrets manager instance.
